Question 1: What are media queries in CSS, and why are they important for responsive
design?

Media queries in CSS are a powerful feature that allows developers to apply different styles to a webpage based on the
characteristics of the device or viewport displaying the content. They enable the implementation of responsive design,
which ensures that web pages look and function well on a variety of devices, including desktops, tablets, and
smartphones.

Key Aspects of Media Queries:
1.Syntax: Media queries use the @media rule followed by a media type and one or more expressions that check for specific
conditions (like viewport width, height, resolution, etc.).

2.Conditions: Media queries can target various features, such as:

width and height of the viewport
orientation (landscape or portrait)
resolution (DPI or pixel density)
aspect-ratio (width-to-height ratio)

3.Breakpoints: Developers often define breakpoints in their CSS where the layout or styles change to accommodate different
screen sizes. Common breakpoints might be at 320px, 768px, and 1024px, corresponding to mobile, tablet, and desktop
views.

Importance of Media Queries for Responsive Design:
1.Adaptability: Media queries allow web pages to adapt to different screen sizes and resolutions, providing an optimal
viewing experience across devices.

2.User Experience: By tailoring styles to specific devices, media queries enhance usability. For example, larger touch
targets on mobile devices improve navigation, while multi-column layouts can be used on larger screens.

3.Performance: Responsive design can reduce the need for separate mobile sites, which can improve load times and reduce
maintenance overhead.

4.SEO Benefits: Search engines favor responsive designs, as they provide a consistent user experience across devices,
which can positively impact search rankings.

5.Future-Proofing: As new devices with varying screen sizes and resolutions continue to emerge, media queries provide a
flexible way to ensure that web content remains accessible and visually appealing.

Question 2: Write a basic media query that adjusts the font size of a webpage for screens
smaller than 600px

Default font size for larger screens:
body {
font-size: 16px;
}

Media query for screens smaller than 600px:
@media (max-width: 600px) {
body {
font-size: 14px; :Adjusted font size for smaller screens
}
}