Question 1: What is a CSS selector? Provide examples of element, class, and ID selectors.
css selector is used to access html elements or tags to provides different-different css on our web page i.e called css selector. 

syntax : 

<style>
selector
{
property:value;
}
</style>    


types of css selector :

a) simple selector 
    1) element selector or tag selector
    2) id selector
    3) class selector

b) combinator selector 
    1) descendent combinator selector(space)
    2) child combinator selector(>)
    3) next sibling combinator selector(+)
    4) subsequent-sibling combinator selector(~)

c) pseudo class selector
d) pseudo element selector
e) attributes selector
f) universal selector
g) grouping selector   

Question 2: Explain the concept of CSS specificity. How do conflicts between multiple styles get resolved?
CSS Specificity:
CSS specificity refers to a set of rules that determines which CSS rule is applied when there are conflicting styles targeting the same element. It is a way for the browser to resolve conflicts between multiple CSS selectors that could apply to the same HTML element.

When several rules are applied to an element, specificity helps determine which rule takes precedence. The more specific a CSS rule is, the higher its specificity score, and thus, the more likely it is to be applied.

How Specificity Works:
Specificity is calculated based on the types of selectors used in a rule. The browser assigns a specificity score to each CSS rule. The score is calculated using a formula based on the components of the selector.

Specificity Hierarchy (Score Calculation):
Specificity is typically represented as a four-part value: a,b,c,d

a: Inline styles (if any). This is the highest specificity and has the value 1.
b: IDs. For every id in a selector, this increases by 1.
c: Classes, attributes, and pseudo-classes (e.g., :hover, :first-child). For every class, attribute, or pseudo-class, this increases by 1.
d: Elements (tags) and pseudo-elements (e.g., ::before, ::after). For every tag or pseudo-element, this increases by 1.

The specificity is calculated as follows:

1. Inline styles: 1,0,0,0
2. IDs: 0,1,0,0
3. Classes/Attributes/Pseudo-classes: 0,0,1,0
4. Elements/Pseudo-elements: 0,0,0,1

The selector with the higher specificity wins in case of a conflict.

Question 3: What is the difference between internal, external, and inline CSS? Discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of each approach.
In CSS, there are three primary ways to apply styles to HTML documents: internal CSS, external CSS, and inline CSS. Each of these approaches has its advantages and disadvantages, and they differ in terms of where and how the styles are applied.

1. Internal CSS
Definition: Internal CSS refers to styles that are defined within the <style> tag inside the <head> section of an HTML document. These styles apply only to the page in which they are defined.

Advantages of Internal CSS:
Page-specific: Styles are applied only to the current page, so you have more control over styling specific to that page.
Easy to manage: If you only need to style one page, internal CSS is convenient because it is placed directly in the HTML document.
No need for external file: There's no need for separate CSS files, making it simpler for small projects or quick prototypes.

Disadvantages of Internal CSS:
Not reusable: The styles are only applicable to the current page. If you want the same styles on multiple pages, you have to duplicate the CSS in each page.
Increases page size: Embedding CSS in the HTML document increases its file size, which can negatively affect page load times.
Less separation of concerns: Mixing content (HTML) with presentation (CSS) can make the code harder to maintain, especially as the project grows.

2. External CSS
Definition: External CSS involves defining styles in a separate .css file, which is linked to the HTML document using the <link> tag in the <head> section.

Advantages of External CSS:
Reusability: The same CSS file can be linked to multiple HTML pages, making it efficient for styling a website with many pages.
Separation of concerns: HTML content and CSS styles are kept separate, which improves code organization and maintainability.
Better performance: The browser caches the external CSS file, meaning it doesn't need to be reloaded every time the page is accessed, improving page load times.
Easier to maintain: Changes to the design can be made in one place (the CSS file) and automatically apply to all pages that link to it.

Disadvantages of External CSS:
Dependency on file location: If the external CSS file is moved or renamed, the link in the HTML file must also be updated, which can break the styles.
Initial load time: On the first visit, the browser needs to load the external CSS file, which can slightly increase the initial page load time.
Extra HTTP request: Every external CSS file requires a separate HTTP request, which can increase load times if there are many external CSS files.

3. Inline CSS
Definition: Inline CSS refers to styles that are applied directly to individual HTML elements using the style attribute.

Advantages of Inline CSS:
Specificity: Inline styles override other CSS rules (including those from external and internal CSS), making them useful for quickly applying styles to individual elements.
Quick styling: It is convenient for quick changes to individual elements or for adding styles to single-use elements, especially during testing or debugging.
No need for external or internal stylesheets: Inline CSS doesn't require separate CSS files, making it a quick solution for styling very small pages.

Disadvantages of Inline CSS:
Not reusable: Inline CSS styles are tied to a specific element and cannot be reused across multiple elements or pages.
Increases HTML size: Adding inline styles directly to HTML elements increases the size of the HTML document, which can slow down page loading if overused.
Poor maintainability: For larger websites, using inline CSS is difficult to maintain and scale because styling information is scattered across the HTML markup.
Mixes content with presentation: Inline CSS violates the principle of separating content (HTML) from presentation (CSS), which can lead to messy and hard-to-manage code.

Differences:
Location-
        Internal CSS:-Inside <style> tag in <head> of HTML
        External CSS:-In a separate .css file linked via <link>
        Inline CSS:-Inside the style attribute of HTML tags

Reusability-
        Internal CSS:-Only applies to the current HTML document
        External CSS:-Can be reused across multiple pages
        Inline CSS:-Only applies to the specific element

Maintainability-
        Internal CSS:-Can be harder to maintain for large projects
        External CSS:-Easier to maintain, as styles are separated
        Inline CSS:-Difficult to maintain and scale

Performance-
        Internal CSS:-Increases HTML file size, no caching
        External CSS:-Better performance due to browser caching
        Inline CSS:-Increases HTML file size and cannot be cached

Use Case-
        Internal CSS:-For small projects or page-specific styles
        External CSS:-For larger websites with multiple pages
        Inline CSS:-For styling individual elements quickly or for testing